# Overview

This is a proposal for changing the approach to providing access to
Meteorological data, it is a response to the rapidly growing data
volumes and the changes in the IT landscape which has increased the
number and type of user who are interested in access to the information.

It is important to recognise that for the majority of users outside of
the Meteorological community, weather (whilst important) is only one of
the pieces of information that their decision making process is based
on. The cost (in both time and effort) means that many organisations who
could benefit from using the data don’t because of the overhead in
accessing it. Another consideration is that the users outside of the
domain are generally not interested in the way the weather parameter
values are generated or stored, they want the best information required to make
their decision in a timely manner.


For a large majority of interested users MetOcean data can be described
as geo-temporal metadata, as it is information about the state of the
ocean or atmosphere at a time and place which affects a business
decision that they are making. Therefore rather than thinking about the
information from a data store point of view, API’s can be based on
geo-temporal query patterns; whilst this could limit the available
functionality it would make it easier to provide standardised access to
information.


This document describes a set of possible API definitions that cope with
many of the existing use cases.

# Approach

The core OGC web services are based around rich query capabilities
against either Feature or Coverage stores. This can be an issue for
MetOcean data where the storage mechanism for data is often driven by
how its generated rather than by the type of information. Another
downside is that it very difficult to optimise the OGC standards based
query APIs due to the need to support a wide range of query patterns and
their generic nature makes it more difficult to provide fine grained
access controls to the information provided. The rich functionality of the
standards also rely on the data consumer having a good understanding of
the OGC standard as well as the data they are querying.

The Weather on the Web API concept is based around query type rather
than the data structure, with an aim to make each query as simple as
possible whilst being agnostic to whether the information is based on
Coverage or Feature sources. Rather than being based on the dataset,
Weather on the Web defines data as collections. The core definition of a
collection is that its members all share the same temporal and spatial
dimensions and coordinate reference systems. An artefact of the Weather
on the Web approach is that the resource returned is generated by the
parameters passed into the query and may not exist until the query is
executed.

In order to make Weather on the Web easier to implement, it will be
based on a 'family' of API’s which follow a common pattern (based on the
OGC core API guidelines and strongly influenced by WFS 3.0). The concept
is that each API in the family should be based on a different query
type, but follow common conventions for query parameter structures and
output formats.

The API’s discovery and query operations are implemented using the HTTP
GET or POST methods. Discovery operations allow the server to be
interrogated to determine what information is available, this includes
the API definition of the server as well as metadata about the
collections provided by the server.

# Specification details 

Documenation for the candidate is available at:

* [Weather on the Web](wotw.adoc)

An OpenAPI yaml schema definition can be found at:

* [Weather on the Web](openapi/wotw_domain.yaml)
